---
layout: post
title: UMD - ENPM808W - Data Science
date: 2021-1-23 23:18 +0800
tags: [UMD]
toc:  true
math: true
---

<!-- Global site tag (gtag.js) - Google Analytics -->
  <script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-TG0XJZG53F"></script>
  <script>
    window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer \|\| [];
    function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
    gtag('js', new Date());

    gtag('config', 'G-TG0XJZG53F');
  </script>

  <style TYPE="text/css">code.has-jax {font: inherit; font-size: 100%; background: inherit; border: inherit;}</style><script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
  MathJax.Hub.Config({
      tex2jax: {
          inlineMath: [['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)']],
          displayMath: [ ['$$','$$'], ["\\[","\\]"] ],
          skipTags: ['script', 'noscript', 'style', 'textarea', 'pre'] // removed 'code' entry
      }});
  MathJax.Hub.Queue(function() {
      var all = MathJax.Hub.getAllJax(), i;
      for(i = 0; i < all.length; i += 1) {
          all[i].SourceElement().parentNode.className += ' has-jax';
      }});
  </script><script type="text/javascript" src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.4/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS_HTML-full"></script>  


### Conditional Probabiity Bayes Total Probability

(1) If A and B are independent (first outcome does not affect second outcome):

P(A ∩ B) = P(A) * P(B)<br/>
P(B\|A) = P(B)<br/>
Coin tosses are independent.

**Conditional Probabiity: **

P(A\|B) = P(A ∩ B) / P(B)

P(A\|B) = conditional probability of A, given B has occurred.<br/>
P(A∩B) = unconditional probability that even A and event B both occur.<br/>
P(B) = the (unconditional probability that event B occurs)

**Example:**<br/>
A jar contains 6 red marbles and 4 black marbles. Two marbles are drawn without replacement from the jar. What is the probability the first and second marbles are black.

Solution: <br/>
Let A = event that the first marble is black. <br/>
Let B = event that the second marble is black.<br/>

In the beginning, 4/10 are black P(A).<br/>
After first selection, 3/9 are black P(B\|A).<br/>

P(A∩B) = P(A) P(B\|A) = 4/10 * 3/9 = 12/90 = 2/15.

**Conditional -> Bayes Theorem**

P(A ∩ B) = P(A\|B) P(B) Multiplicative Rule<br/>

P(A ∩ B) = P(B ∩ A) Commutativity<br/>

P(A ∩ B) = P(A\|B) P(B)<br/>
P(B ∩ A) = P(B\|A) P(A)<br/>

**Bayes Theorem:**
P(A\|B) = P(B\|A) P(A) / P(B)


(2)

Law of total probability<br/>

A partition of the sample space S is a collection of disjoint events B1,B2..Bk whose union is S. Such a partition divides any set A into disjoint parts.

Suppose we have a partition B1, B2..BK then any event A is a union of its parts:

A = (A ∩ B1) V (A ∩ B2) V … (A ∩BK)

P(A) = P(A ∩ B1) + (A ∩ B2) + … (A ∩BK)

P(A) = P(A\|B1) P(B1) + P(A\|B2) P(B2) + … P(A\|BK)P(K) (Apply Multiplicative Rule)


Example 1:

What is the probability the second card in the deck is an ace? (We don’t know what the first card is.)

A1 = The first card is an ace.<br/>
A1c = The first card is not an ace.<br/>
A2\|A1 = Second card is an Ace given first card is an ace.<br/>
A2\|A1c = Second card is an Ace given first card is not an ace.<br/>

P(A2) = P(A2\|A1)P(A1) + P(A2\|A1c)P(A1c)<br/>
P(A) = (3/51 * 4/52)  +  (4/51 * 48/52)<br/>
P(A) = (3\*4) + (4\*48) / (51\*52)<br/>
P(A) = (3+48)*4 / 51\*52<br/>
P(A) = 51\*4 / 51\*52<br/>
P(A) = 4/52<br/>

Example 2:

Suppose we have two hats: <br/>
Hat1: 4 red balls and 6 green balls<br/>
Hat2: 6 red balls and 4 green balls<br/>

We toss a fair coin, if heads, pick a random ball from the first hat.<br/>
If tails, pick a random ball from the 2nd hat.

What is the probability of getting the red ball?


P(Red) = P(Red\|H) P(H) + P(Red\|T) P(T)<br/>
P(Red) = 4/10 * 1/2 + 6/10 * 1/2<br/>
P(Red) = 4/20 + 6/20 = 10/20 = 1/2<br/>

Example 3:

We have two bowls of cookies:

Bowl 1: 30 vanilla, 10 chocolate<br/>
Bowl 2: 20 vanilla, 20 chocolate<br/>

Suppose we select a cookie randomly from a bowl, and it is vanilla. What is the probability it came from bowl 1?


So we want P(Bowl1\|vanilla) but we don’t know how. We do know P(Vanilla\|Bowl1), its 3/4, so we use this is Bayes Theorem.

P(A\|B) = P(B\|A)P(A) / P(B)<br/>
P(Bowl1\|Vanilla) = P(Vanilla\|Bowl1) P(Bowl1) / P(Vanilla)<br/>
P(Vanilla\|Bowl1) = 3/4<br/>
P(Vanilla) = P(Vanilla\|Bowl1) P(Bowl1) + P(Vanilla\|Bowl2) P(Bowl2)<br/>
P(Vanilla) = 3/4 * 1/2   + 1/2 * 1/2 = 3/8 + 2/8 = 5/8<br/>
P(Bowl1\|Vanilla) = (3/4 * 1/2) * 8/5 = 3/5<br/>



A die is loaded in such a way that the probability of each face turning up is proportional to the number of dots on that face. (For example, a six is three times as probable as a two.) What is the probability of getting an even number in one throw?
 2 +  4  + 6 = 12/21= 4/7

Let A and B be events such that P(A ^ B) = 1/4 , P(A) = 1/3, and P(B) = 1/2. What is P(A v B)?
(4/12 + 6/12 ) –3/12  = 7/12
A card is drawn at random from a deck of cards. What is the probability that? (a) it is a heart, given that it is red? (b) it is a jack, given that it is red?
P(Heart\|Red) = P(Heart ^ Red) / P(Red)
= (1/4) / (1/2) = 1/2
P(Jack\|Red) = 1/13
P(Jack\|Red) = P(Jack ^ Red) / P(Red)
(1/13 * ½ ) / ½ = 1/13
Three cards are drawn from an ordinary 52-card deck without replacement (drawn cards are not placed back in the deck). What is the probability that none of the three cards is a heart?
13/52 are hearts
39/52 * 38/51 * 37/50 = .414
.75 * .745 * .74 = .414
There’s a test for Boogie Woogie Fever (BWF). The probability of getting a positive test result given that you have BWF is 0.8, and the probability of getting a positive result given that you do not have BWF is 0.01. The overall incidence of BWF is 0.01. (a) What is the marginal probability of getting a positive test result?
(b) What is the probability of having BWF given that you got a positive test result?
P(Pos\|BWF) = .8
P(Pos|~BWF) = .01
P(BWF) = .01
P(BWF\|Pos)?

P(BWF\|Pos) = P(Pos\|BWF) P(BWF)/ P(Pos)
P(Pos)?
P(Pos) = P(Pos\|BWF) P(BWF) + P(Pos|~BWF) P(~BWF)
P(Pos) = (.8 * .01)   + (.01 * .99) = .008 + .0099 = .0179

P(BWF\|Pos) = P(Pos\|BWF)P(BWF) / P(Pos) = .008 / .0179 = .45
One coin in a collection of 65 has two heads. The rest are fair. If a coin, chosen at random from the lot and then tossed, turns up heads 6 times in a row, what is the probability that it is the two-headed coin?
1/65 coin has two heads.
64/65 coins are fair.

P(2-headed coin | heads 6 times in a row)  

U = 2-headed coin
F = heads 6 times in a row

P(U\|F)   

P(U\|F) = P(U ^ F) / P(F)
P(U\|F) = P(F\|U) P(U) / P(F)

P(F)?
P(F) = P(F ^ U) + P(F ^ ~U)
P(F) = P(F\|U) P(U) + P(F|~U) P(~U)
P(F) = (1*1/65) + (1/64)(64/65)
P(F) = 1/65 + 1/65 = 2/65
P(U\|F) = 1/65 / 2/65
P(U\|F) = 1/65 * 65/2 = ½

What is the expectation of a six-sided die? A ten-sided die?

1(1/6) + 2(1/6) … 6(1/6) = 3.5
1(1/10) + 2(1/10) … 10(1/10) = 5.5
